P12 - Decision Support System: 	
Decision making in any field can be a complex and difficult activity and this is especially so with many forms of financial data. The aim of this project is to develop a “hybrid” decision support system – that performs automated analysis, whilst also keeping a “human in the loop”. In order to achieve this, data acquisition, filtering, statistical analysis, graphical visualisation and user interaction need to be combined effectively together into a coherent system.	
This is a Software Engineering project that requires students to bring their own data analysis domain (an area of financial decision making that interests them in particular). Successful students will be competent programmers wishing to gain experience of data APIs and graphical visualisation frameworks.



MSc Thesis / Report: Due 31st AugustMSc Thesis / Report: Due 31st August

You must write up your project thesis as an individual report. To help you write your report, there are some resources available from the left-menu "Resources". This includes examples of previous projects, and some tips for writing, etc.
The thesis should be formatted using the University's template for MSc theses and the main content of the thesis should be no more than 30 pages in length (i.e., 30 pages includes everything you write from the "Introduction" section to the end of your "Conclusions" section; the page count does not include title page, abstract, table of contents, reference list, appendices, etc.). 
Below, we have more information on structuring your thesis. As described, all reports are differrent and there is no single best way to organise. However, as a rule of thumb, we suggest:
approx 2 pages for your introduction
approx 5 pages for your background 
approx 10 pages for your execution - i.e., what you did
approx 10 pages for your analysis - i.e., your results / findings / evaluation
approx 3 pages for your conclusions - including a summary of your main contributions, what stage you reached compared with your project aims, open questions, future plans
other mandatory content: title page, declaration, ethics statement, table of contents, references 
optional content: acknowledgements, list of tables and figures, supporting technologies list, appendices
In total, that is your full 30 pages. You can split this into as many chapters as you wish and you can name chapters in any way that you wish. The suggested pages are to emphasise where you should be putting effort into your writing. For example, a report with a full literature review of 25 pages will receive a low mark (no matter how good the lit. review is) because you only have 5 pages remaining to tell us about what you did!
Latex template:
Please use the Fintech MSc Project Latex template to write your report: [  Download ZIP |  View PDF View PDF - Alternative Formats ].
To use the template,  you should download and unzip the Fintech_MSc_Template.zip file. Then upload *all* the contents of the zip folder to Overleaf.
The template contains lots of useful information on what to include in your report. 
Some of you may prefer to write using Word. We do *not* encourage you to do this and we do not provide a Word template. If you decide to use Word then you must ensure that the formatting closely matches the latex template and you must include all the necessary sections. 
Supervisor guidance:
Supervisors will be able to guide you on the structure of your thesis and will be happy to give you feedback during your supervision meetings on your progress, approach, preliminary results, and thesis structure. 
However, supervisors will not be able to comment closely on your entire thesis document. Supervisors are not proof-readers or copy-editors: it is your responsibility to prepare acceptable text and diagrams, appropriately structured. You cannot expect your supervisor to read your entire MSc thesis and go through it making corrections and suggesting re-phrasings, so you will need to find someone else to help you with that: it could be a friend who does it as a favour; or you could use a professional proof-reader/copy-editor (some are listed along with other resources on writing/communicating, on the main MSc welcome-page on Blackboard: they are reproduced below). If English is not your first language then it can often be extremely useful to have your text checked and corrected by someone who is a native speaker: you are stongly advised to do that.
Supervisors will give you detailed feedback on your project plans (submitted at the start of July): *that* is your only opportunity for getting your supervisor's feedback on your writing style.
Plagiarism:
We expect all students to be familiar with the University's rules and regulations on plagiarism. If you are found to have submitted an MSc thesis for assessment that contains material plagiarised from other sources, we treat that very seriously: if this is the first time you have been found to plagiarise other people's work then you can expect to get a zero-grade for your thesis, and will be required to revise and resubmit -- this will delay your graduation date by several months. If you have previously beeen found guilty of plagiarism on other assessments in the MSc degree then, as a repeat-offender, it is possible that you will be required to leave the programme without graduating: that is, you will fail to gain an MSc degree. The simple way to avoid these penalties is to be very careful to never submit plagiarised work. You should read and be familiar with the University's regulations on academic integrity and plagiarism and the University Assessment Regulations (Particularly Section 3 on Plagiarism).
Please note that it is relatively easy for us to detect plagiarism and/or other forms of cheating in your projects. During the summer, your supervisor will get to know you and your work. They will notice if you submit a report and/or code that is much better than expected. They will have time to question you on this (at the Q&A, see below) and you must be able to demonstrate full understanding of everything that you have written (both report and code). If you cannot, a misconduct case will be raised. 
Please also note that some students plagiarise "by accident". This is also no excuse. Top tip: when you are reading papers, make notes in your own words on each paper. Then, when you write up your background literature review, use your own notes as a guide and not the original papers. This ensures that you will not fall into the trap of copying (or closely paraphrasing) sentences from the original work.
How will my thesis be marked?
Your thesis will be marked by two independent markers: your supervisor and a second marker. Both markers will form an indepenent mark. They will then discuss and agree a final mark. If the two markers cannot agree a third marker will be brought in.
All projects are different and there are multiple dimensions on which they are assessed: challenge and achievement, technical approach, evaluation and understanding, presentation and communication. You will be awarded with a higher mark if you work independently (without lots of direction from your supervisor at every step) and if you attempt to use ideas and techniques outside of the Fintech MSc curriculum (i.e., rather than simply doing what you previously did for one of your unit assessments, but in more depth). 
Further details on the marking rubric are available here:  MSc Report Marking Rubric MSc Report Marking Rubric - Alternative Formats


Video Pre

Video Presentation: Due 7th Sep.
Once you have submitted your project thesis, you have one week to prepare a video of no more than 10 minutes duration. 
Your video presentation and online Q&A is worth 20% of your overall mark for your project and it is evaluated relative to the fourth intended learning outcome (ILO4) for the unit:
Critically evaluate and effectively communicate their findings in terms of their motivation, methodology, results and in relation to existing work (both in written, visual, and oral forms).
The video should explain your project: what you did (methodology), why you did it (motivation), your key results/findings and how they compare with existing work. 
This is a chance to promote and advertise your work to others in an easy-to-follow way. Your video presenation can (and should) be less technical than your report. Focus on making sure the audience of intelligent non-experts can understand what you have done. What is the problem you are attempting to solve and why is it interesting? What approach did you take to solve it and why did you chose this approach? What are your key results/findings (perhaps here you can show your main graph or table of results; but remember to carefully explain what you are showing). What is new/novel about this work that people didn't know before? How do your results relate to results found by others? 
You do not have to cover everything in your thesis. Be selective and do not assume that the audience have read your report.
If you try to simply read your entire project thesis out loud, it will take a *long* time (perhaps one hour or more!) - much longer than the 10 minutes that you have available. Therefore, your job is to reduce everything down so that you can convey a clear message - tell a good story - about the work you did on your project. You can consider it as a 10-minute elavator pitch: it should talk about what you did, why it’s interesting/challenging/relevant, how you did whatever you did, show some of your key final results/analyses, and should also talk critically about any limitations of your current system/approach and what you think the most interesting next steps or further research would be.
There is no limit on the number of slides, and indeed there is no requirement to use Powerpoint (although it is very easy to create a recording using PowerPoint tools). You might instead decide to use Beamer, or Prezi (https://prezi.com/), or to make an animation, or to shoot as a "piece-to-camera" as if you are the presenter of a very short science documentary, or to video yourself doing a talk-and-chalk lecture at an actual blackboard or whiteboard. You can be on-screen for the whole 10 minutes, or not at all, or anywhere in between. It’s entirely up to you. You can use any video-editing software that you have available: UoB offers use of Camtasia (https://www.techsmith.com/store/camtasia) or your personal computer/laptop may already have editing software bundled in (e.g. Apple Mac OSX come with iMovie as standard). Please save your final video in an MP4 video format.
While there is no limit on number of slides, there is a very hard limit of 10-minutes for your video. We will stop watching after 10m00s and anything beyond that point will be ignored.
Unfortunately, Blackboard is not set up to accept large numbers of large digital video files as coursework submission, so insteead we ask that, after you have finished recording and editing your video, you upload it to a remote site for storage and later playback. You could use YouTube, or Vimeo, or you could upload the video file to a folder on a cloud storage service such as Dropbox or Microsoft OneDrive. It needs to be accessible for at least as long as it takes for us to mark your project work and release the marks to you: do not delete the file or otherwise restrict access until after you have been notified of your final project mark.
Once you have uploaded your final video, it is vitally important that you check that someone else (e.g. a trusted friend or relative) can easily view and/or download-and-play your video. This check is imprtant because if the people examining/marking your MSc thesis cannot view/download-and-play your video file then you will get 0% for this part of the assessment.
To let us know how to access your video (a URL for where it is and also any required password, if you have added access restrictions) please submit full access details for your video to Blackboard: a simple one page document containing your name, thesis title, URL link to your video (and password if necessary) is sufficient. 
Presenting Tips: 
Remember the usual rules of presenting: do not put too much information (ie words, numbers, equations) on a single slide. Talk slowly so that you can be understood (including captions can help). Explain what is on your slides - if you show a graph, don't just say "here are my results", explain what you are showing, e.g., "Here we have accuracy on the Y axis and time on X axis. The blue line is the baseline result (using Smith's model from 1950). The red line is the result from my new model. We see that initially the blue line is above the red line, but after T seconds the red line reaches higher accuracy. Therefore, my new model takes longer to learn, but can reach higher accuracy" etc.
This is your chance to show us why your work is exciting, so try to present with some interest and passion. If you sound bored, then your audience will be bored!
Online Q&A (10 minutes, to be scheduled between 1st and 14th September).
When you present live, there is time at the end for the audience to ask you questions. This is not possible for a video presentation. Therefore, we will schedule a 10 minute slot for your supervisor to question you about your project report.
You will attend an online 10-minute Q&A session with your supervisor.  You will be asked a series of questions about your project, taken directly from what you have written in your report and the code you have submitted. This is an opportunity for you to explain in more detail any work that was not clear in your report, and also a chance for the supervisor to check that you can explain your work and that your work is your own.
If you understand everything you have written in your report and if you have written all your own code, this Q&A will be a formality. If you have not written your own report or code then it is very likely that you will be caught at this point. If academic misconduct is suspected, you will be required to attend a Faculty Academic Misconduct Panel. The consequences of misconduct can be severe. Make sure you do not end up in this position - do all your own work and credit others where you have used their code and/or ideas. You must familiarise yourself with the rules of plagiarism. Your supervisor can help you if you have questions. If you are unsure, show your supervisor some of your draft writing (and the original sources) and ask if they think it constitutes plagiarism - they will guide you on how you should reference properly and will pull you up if you are using too many direct quotes or long passages of quotes, or if you are closely paraphrasing original works, sentence after sentence, rather than summarising the literature in your own words. 
Q&A Questions & Marking:
The Q&A will ask a series of standardised template questions (to ensure consistency and to give students pre-warning of what to expect).
All questions will refer to the student's own report and code. Questions will be a close varation of the following: 
describe paper X in more detail, where X is taken from background lit; [ to ensure that you have really read and understood all the papers that you cite ]
explain method/equation Y, where Y is taken from technical background; [ to ensure that you have not simply copied equations without understanding them ]
explain function Z, where Z is taken from project code base; [ to ensure that you have written your own code ]
expand upon a statement given in results/conclusion/future work. [ to offer you the chance to provide further explanation ]
The final mark for the presentation will be formed by the video and moderated by the performance in the Q&A such that a student displaying profound depth of understanding may receive a much higher mark (i.e., the Q&A is a chance for you to show off all your knowledge, while a student that can't answer basic questions on their own work (such that provenance is questioned) may receive a mark of zero and/or be referred to plagiarism panel (i.e., the Q&A will find out if your work is not your own or if you do not have clear understanding).
IMPORTANT: If you miss the online Q&A you will not have a chance to defend your work. Therefore you will score zero for the presentation component and an academic misconduct case may be raised to faculty. It is simply not worth missing. You will only be questioned on your own work so the Q&A should not be challenging. As usual, if there are extenuating circumstances (EC) that prevent you from attending the Q&A, you can file an EC and the Q&A will be rescheduled for a time when you are able. 